# SVG SPRITES MODULE

---

> **FOR GULP 4**\
> **TESTED ON WINDOWS - NODE.JS 14**

---

## GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

> **YOU DO NOT HAVE TO LICENSE SITES OR THEMES MADE WITH THIS SOFTWARE WITH THIS SAME LICENSE, OF COURSE.**
>
> THIS LICENSE IS FOR DERIVATIVE SOFTWARE, LIKE A MODIFIED VERSION OF THIS SOFTWARE OR A SOFTWARE THAT INCLUDES THIS CODE OR ITS PARTS.

---

## GENERAL INFO

> If you want to use this repository it is required that you're familiar with Gulp and Javascript.
> It is also recommended that you're familiar with the node modules it uses.
>
> If you're familiar with Gulp and JavaScript then it's very easy for you to add new modules or modify modules behaviour.
>
> Try not to modify any other but `config.js` files, unless you know what you are doing.
>
> Configuration files (`config.js`) are commented for explanations, which should be fine for most people familiar with Gulp and JavaScript. Almost everything is configurable.
>
> If you're developing with WordPress, you have to have a local WordPress site (with local server, like XAMPP) to proxy it with browsersync, because browsersync can't serve php. The settings for that are made automatically, just edit the project and wp config.
>
> Use TODOs like: `TODO:` or `FIXME:` in an appropriate comment (ex: // TODO: change this), to get all todos and fixmes in a .txt file in the root dir.\
> Read more at: <https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-todo>

---

## FEATURES

-  set folders whose content (SVG files) will be merged into a 'sprite'
-  create multiple sprites, with different options for each
-  minify SVGs
-  option to keep/remove doctype
-  prefixed IDs are automatically generated by sprite name, dir and filename, so files with same filenames (in different directories) are possible, IDs will stil be unique

> :information_source: Inline SVGs in browser, not with Gulp, because of caching.
>
> :information_source: Read more about SVG sprites at [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com/svg-symbol-good-choice-icons/)

## USAGE

-  Edit configuration
-  Run gulp
-  Place files in their src dir, they will be processed automatically

> Configuration files (`config.js`) are commented for explanations, which should be fine for most people familiar with Gulp and JavaScript.

---

## INSTALLATION

### Required node modules

Required node modules: 'General Node Modules', gulp-svgstore, gulp-svgmin.

#### Install

```cmd
npm install --save-dev gulp-svgstore gulp-svgmin
```

---

## LICENSE

> **YOU DO NOT HAVE TO LICENSE SITES OR THEMES MADE WITH THIS SOFTWARE WITH THIS SAME LICENSE, OF COURSE.**
>
> THIS LICENSE IS FOR DERIVATIVE SOFTWARE, LIKE A MODIFIED VERSION OF THIS SOFTWARE OR A SOFTWARE THAT INCLUDES THIS CODE OR ITS PARTS.

---

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE V3.0

Permissions of this strong copyleft license are conditioned on making available complete source code of licensed works and modifications, which include larger works using a licensed work, under the same license. Copyright and license notices must be preserved. Contributors provide an express grant of patent rights.

Permissions:

-  Commercial use
-  Modification
-  Distribution
-  Patent use
-  Private use

Limitations:

-  No Liability
-  No Warranty

Conditions:

-  License and copyright notice
-  State changes
-  Disclose source
-  Same license

---

## COPYRIGHT

**© 2021 [Igor Vračar](https://www.igorvracar.com)**

---
