gulp-wsb/build-modules/svg-sprites/README.md, before:

# SVG SPRITES MODULE

## GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

## GENERAL INFO

> If you want to use this repository it is required that you're familiar with Gulp and Javascript.
> It is also recommended that you're familiar (perhaps not in depth) with the node modules it uses.

---

> Try not to modify any other but `config.js` files, unless you know what you are doing.

## Features

-  set folders whose content (SVG files) will be merged into a 'sprite'
-  create multiple sprites
-  minify SVGs

> Read more about SVG sprites at [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com/svg-symbol-good-choice-icons/)

## USAGE

> Everything is configurable.

---

> Configuration files (`config.js`) are commented for explanations, which should be fine for most people familiar with Gulp and JavaScript.

## INSTALLATION

### Required node modules

Required node modules: 'General Node Modules', gulp-svgstore, gulp-svgmin.

#### Install

```cmd
npm install --save-dev gulp-svgstore gulp-svgmin
```

## Copyright

**© 2021 [Igor Vračar](https://www.igorvracar.com)**

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Commit message:

plumber, option to remove doctype, fixed id generation

gulp-wsb/build-modules/svg-sprites/README.md, after:

# SVG SPRITES MODULE

## GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

## GENERAL INFO

> If you want to use this repository it is required that you're familiar with Gulp and Javascript.
> It is also recommended that you're familiar (perhaps not in depth) with the node modules it uses.

---

> Try not to modify any other but `config.js` files, unless you know what you are doing.

## Features

-  set folders whose content (SVG files) will be merged into a 'sprite'
-  create multiple sprites, with different options
-  minify SVGs
-  option to keep/remove doctype
-  prefixed IDs are automatically generated by sprite name, dir and filename, files with same filenames (in different directories) are possible, IDs will stil be unique

> Read more about SVG sprites at [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com/svg-symbol-good-choice-icons/)

## USAGE

> Everything is configurable.

---

> Configuration files (`config.js`) are commented for explanations, which should be fine for most people familiar with Gulp and JavaScript.

## INSTALLATION

### Required node modules

Required node modules: 'General Node Modules', gulp-svgstore, gulp-svgmin.

#### Install

```cmd
npm install --save-dev gulp-svgstore gulp-svgmin
```

## Copyright

**© 2021 [Igor Vračar](https://www.igorvracar.com)**

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
